---
title: "Secrets"
linkTitle: "Secrets"
description: >
  Learn about internal Vela secrets.
---

This page will primarily focus on `internal secrets`. Check out [external secrets examples](/docs/usage/examples/secrets_external/). To learn how to use `internal` or `external` secrets in your pipeline, check out the [secrets tour](/docs/tour/secrets/).

{{% alert title="Warning:" color="secondary" %}}
Internal secrets do NOT have the `pull_request` event enabled by default. This is intentional to help mitigate exposure via a pull request against the repo. You can override this behavior, at your own risk, for each secret.
{{% /alert %}}

## Internal Secrets
Internal secrets are generally managed via the UI or the [CLI](/docs/reference/cli/secret/). They can also be managed via the [API](/docs/reference/api/secret/).

A full pipeline example is available [here](/docs/usage/examples/secrets_internal/)

_Example pipeline yaml block for internal secrets_

```yaml
secrets:
  - name: foo1
    key: github/ocotocat/foo
    engine: native
    type: repo
```

### Name

The name of your secret.

### Key

The key is autogenerated based on the other secret components, following this convention (see [Type](/docs/usage/secrets/#type)).

* Repository: `<org>/<repo>/<name>`
* Organization: `<org>/<name>`
* Shared: `<org>/<team>/<name>`

### Engine

The native secret engine is designed to store secrets in the database. This component exists for configuration future-proofing; allowing easier expansion for additional options in the future.

### Type

There are three types of internal secrets, with equivalent example paths for the UI:

* Repository - `https://vela.example.com/-/secrets/native/repo/<org>/<repo>`
* Organization - `https://vela.example.com/-/secrets/native/org/<org>`
* Shared - `https://vela.example.com/-/secrets/native/shared/<org>/<team>`

#### Repository

Repository secrets are scoped to only a single repository. In order to create/modify these secrets you must be a repository admin within the source code manager.

_Example yaml block for repository secret type_

```yaml
secrets:
  - name: foo1
    key: github/ocotocat/foo1
    engine: native
    type: repo
```

#### Organization

Organization secrets are scoped to any repository in the organization. In order to create/modify these secrets you must be an organization admin within the source code manager.

_Example yaml block for organization secret type_

```yaml
secrets:
  - name: foo
    key: github/foo
    engine: native
    type: org
```

#### Shared

Shared secrets are scoped to any repository in the source code manager (SCM). Shared secrets are unique in the case they require a team to exist in your SCM org. In order to create/modify these secrets you must be a member of the SCM team.

_Example yaml block for shared secret type_

```yaml
secrets:
  - name: foo
    key: github/ocotokitties/foo
    engine: native
    type: shared
```
